Math   155 :  Multivariable Calculus    Fall 2025  ,  1:50 - 3:00p m,  West Campus 220        Instructor:   Liz Sattler (she/her)       Office:    West Campus 232    Email:    sattlere@lawrence.edu    (Please contact me by email!  It is the fastest way to get a   response from me.)    Student    hours:   Monday  , Wednesday, Thursday, Friday 3  - 4pm     Prerequisites:   MATH 140 (or equivalent) and s  core of   75   on ALEKS placement assessment     Textbook for course:   Calculus   –   Volume 2 and 3 on Openstax.      Link to text:     https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus  - volume  - 2   (Volume 2)        https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus  - volume  - 3   (Volume 3)    Required software:    we will use Derivita for daily homework assignments.  Derivita costs $40   for the term, and this must be paid within the first two weeks.       Course overview:   The course topics will include: integration techniques, vectors, multivariable   functions, partial derivatives, optimization of multivariable functions, double and triple integrals.    In order to fully understand these topics, you must have a strong understa  nding of algebra,   functions, single  - variable calculus, some geometry and trigonometry.  If you need review on   these topics, please take advantage of the ALEKS learning modules that are available to you and   the Openstax textbook for single   variable calculus (  https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus  - volume  - 1   ).   Learning Outcomes:   By the end of this course, you should be able to:    (1)   Content specific outcomes:    a.   Define and analyze   functions of two variables    b.   Compute partial and directional derivatives     c.   Find and interpret gradients and tangent planes    d.   Solve multivariable optimization problems    e.   Set up and evaluate double and triple integrals using rectangular, polar, and   spherical coordinates.    (2)   Solve unfamiliar problems independently u    (3)   Read and interpret mathematical text and examples at an introductory level    (4)   Clearly express your reasoning behind your solutions      Grading:    The grading breakdown for this class will be as follows:        Perusall Activity  :     5%       Derivita:        5%       Weekly Homework:      10%       Quizzes:         15%       Exams :       40 %        Final exam:             2 5 %     I will use a 90/80/70/60 scale for your letter grade (A/B/C/D).  +/  -   cutoffs will be placed above _7.5% (+)   and below _2.5% (  - ).  I will not curve grades and will not give extra credit in this course.        Course policies:      •   Perusall    o   To earn points for your Perusall    grade, you must complete the assigned   reading and submit questions and/or comments.    o   You will have assigned reading   due the night before each class at 11:59pm.    o   You will receive zero credit after the due date.    •   Derivita    o   Derivita    is an online homework system that you will use for short, frequent   assignments.  You can access the assignments through Canvas.    o   You will have a Derivita assignment   due  the night   before each class   (11:59pm)  , unless otherwise noted.  You will receive zero credit for late   work.    o   These problems are graded automatically and you have an unlimited number   of attempts.    •   Homework    o   Written homework assignments will be due    Mondays at 11:59pm  .  You will   submit them on Gradescope.    o   These problems will be graded on accuracy and quality of explanations or   justification.  Partial credit will be awarded.    o   You will receive   zero credit for late homework  .   o   I will drop your lowest homework score.    •   Quizzes:   o   We will take quizzes in class most weeks (usually on Wednesday).    o   Quizzes will consist of 2  - 3 problems that are similar to written homework and   Derivita problems.     o   You must notify me BEFORE class if you will miss a quiz for an acceptable   reason (illness, extracurricular activity, etc.).  If you fail to notify me before   the quiz, you will not get to retake the quiz.    o   You will not be allowed to use notes, calculators, textbooks, etc. on quizzes.    •   Exams   o   You will take   two   exams in this course  :  October 8 (Week 4)    and   November   3 (Week 8)    o   You must take the exams in class.  If you must miss an exam for an acceptable   reason (illness,   extracurricular activity  , etc  . ), you MUST notify me BEFORE   the start of the exam.  Documentation may be requested.    o   There will be no opportunities for retakes or extra credit on exams.    •   Final Exam    o   The final exam will be given on   Tuesday,   November 25  th   at 8:00 - 10:30am.   o   You   MUST take the exam at this time and you MUST take the exam in   person.        Attendance policy:    •   To succeed in this class, you need to be present and engaged.      •   You are allowed two unexcused absences in this course.  For each unexcused absence   beyond this, your final letter grade will drop by one step.    •   Examples: if you finish the course with a B but you miss 3 classes, your final grade will   be a B  - .     •   If you need to miss class due to illness, athletic events, religious observations,   emergencies, please notify me as soon as possible (preferably BEFORE class) and I will   excuse the absence.      Academic Integrity:   Academic integrity is vital to every class you take at Lawrence University.   Each student is responsible for knowing and maintaining the standards of academic integrity put   forth in the Lawrence University Honor Code. Your instructors expect that you have a    clear   understanding of the Honor Code and that you will adhere to it at all times. Academic dishonesty   will not be tolerated.   The following actions are   PROHIBITED    in this class (and any violations   will be reported to the Honor Council):    -   Use of online websites, apps, generative AI (like ChatGPT) and similar   resources to   find solutions    to assigned problems.    -   Inappropriate collaboration.  You cannot copy solutions from another student.    You cannot share your solutions with another student.  The work you complete   and submit must be your own.      You are responsible for your own learning.  We forbid these resources because we want you to   fully understand and retain the content you learn in this course.      AI Policy:   To learn mathematics, you need to practice mathematics consistently.  Practice   includes making mistakes and struggling with problems  !    To ensure that you get this important   practice,   you are   NOT allowed    to use AI tools (ChatGPT, Gemini, CoPilot, etc) to find   solutions to homework problems  .  You CAN use AI tools   for learning purposes   (review   concepts, seek alternate explanations, generate extra problems, etc).      Help outside of class:      •   Student    hours .    This time is reserved specifically for   my current students.    If you cannot   make   it to   my office hours, please email me to set up an appointment.    •   Drop  - in tutoring hours.  Drop  - in math tutoring will take place in the Quantitative   Resource Center on the second floor of the library.  Drop  - in hours are Sun  - Thurs from 7  - 9 and Mon  - Friday 1  - 5pm.    •   One  - on - one tutoring.  You can request an individual tutor through Navigate.  If you   aren’t sure how to do this, please ask me!    Accessibility Statement:   Lawrence University is committed to ensuring the full participation of   all students in its programs. If you have a documented disability (or think you may have a   disability), contact Accessibility Services as soon as possible by emailing   accessibility@lawr  ence.edu. The Director of Accessibility Services located in the Center for   Academic Success (CAS) works with students to determine eligibility for academic   accommodations, such as extended testing time and note taking support.    If there are circumstances that may affect your performance in this class, please let me know as   soon as possible. Together we can develop strategies that can foster your success in the course.   All students are encouraged to utilize the available resources on campus, including Wellness   Services, writing and content tutors, academic skill support, and academic counselors.    Basic Needs:   There are many resources available to support and assist students while at   Lawrence University. If you or someone you know is struggling to meet their basic needs like   safety, shelter, food, transportation, mental health, or other personal challenges, plea  se contact   the Dean of Students office at deanofstudents@lawrence.edu for support with navigating campus   and community resources.    Academic Materials Assistance:   If you are a student with high financial need, have utilized all   financial aid options available to you, and still need help getting required academic course   materials, please contact the Dean of Students office at 920  - 832 - 6596 or  deanofstudents@lawrence.e  du to discuss possible resources.    Title IX: Confidentiality and Responsible Employee Statement    Lawrence University is   committed to creating a safe learning environment for all members of our community, free from   gender and sex  - based discrimination and harassment. Please note that our institutional policy   designates all employees, aside from select   Confidential Sources, as Mandatory Reporters. All   Mandatory Reporters must report all disclosures of sex or gender  - based discrimination or   violence to Lawrence’s Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX Coordinator will reach out to provide   resources, support, a  nd information after receiving a report, but community members are not   required to respond to such outreach. For more information regarding Lawrence’s Title IX   procedures, reporting, or support measures, please visit the Equity and Title IX Website.      